- While, OAuth and OAuth 2 are probably
two of the most common authentication
and authorization schemes on the internet today,
they're also some of the most confusing and misunderstood.
So before we get too deep
into using OAuth 2 with Spring Security,
I want to talk just very briefly
about what OAuth 2 actually is.
So let's talk about OAuth 2.
OAuth 2 is a protocol as well as a framework
for providing access to HTTP services.
Now those services can be traditional web services,
as well as web applications.
It's often used for third-party access.
So if you use social media,
and you grant an application access
to your Facebook profile, for instance,
that's done through OAuth 2.
Google provides the same sort of structure
with its frameworks around OpenID.
It's so very common
that you may not even realize you're doing it,
but OAuth 2 really is all over the place.
It can also be used
for system-to-system communications in standalone mode
or on behalf of another user.
And from my perspective,
this is actually the most common use case that I use
because we actually secure all
of our web services with OAuth 2
between client and server on purpose in order to make sure
that we're protecting the data as needed.
Now there several key components of an OAuth 2 system.
The first is the resource owner,
and that's the data that actually is being protected.
So for instance, my profile data
in Google would be the resource,
and they're the owner of it,
because it's about me,
they still own it because they're Google.
Now the client is the application that, for instance,
I am using or a service that is being used on my behalf
that is requesting access to the resource.
The resource server in my previous use case
would be Google's profile system itself.
So it is the system that hosts the protected data
and the accounts that we're requesting access to,
and the authorization service is the service
that grants tokens on behalf of me to the data
that the resource service itself holds.
There's a lot there, but each of those parts plays
a key element in making OAuth 2 work.
Now there's a few token type types
and we need to know about these tokens
as we're interacting with OAuth at a systemic level.
The first is the access token,
and this is the secret token that is used
to identify the user and get their scopes.
Often, it's very short lived and that's on purpose
because that token uniquely identifies the user
and whatever permissions they've had associated with them.
As such, we don't really want it to live for a long time
because if it gets leaked, the security breaks down.
Now the refresh token is a little bit longer lived token.
It is used to renew an access token
when the access token expires.
So you may have an access token that lasts a day,
and you may have a refresh token that lasts a week.
Which means that if I log in today, I use my access token.
If I come back tomorrow,
I would use the refresh token
to renew my access token and get a new one.
However, if I don't come back for another 14 days
after my refresh token and my access token expire,
then I have to go through the process
of granting access once again.
Now scopes are provided on access tokens,
and it's essentially the rights
that are associated with token.
So for instance, in a server side component,
let's say we have a service that serves customer data.
We would grant access to another system
that says you can access customer data
while not providing that same scope
to a different access token.
Now, I kind of alluded to it here,
but there's a couple different types of grants,
and those grants impact flow throughout the system.
The authorization code grant is the most common,
and that's what you would see
with something like on Facebook or Twitter
where you're granting access to someone else on your behalf.
An implicit grant is very common
in web apps and mobile apps where the security
of that access token cannot be maintained.
Often, these don't come with refresh tokens
and they're very specific to the function
of the application being granted access.
Now, the one that I've used most often
as I alluded to previously
is the concept of a client credential.
Each system gets a client ID and a secret
that uses to get an access token
and then do its work within the system
based on the scopes that we previously defined.
Now that's like 10,000 or 100,000 foot view even of OAuth 2,
and it's by no means an in depth explanation
of every key component of OAuth.
If you're really that interested in understanding OAuth,
there's tons of resources out there,
and I highly suggest
that at least you get some basic concepts
beyond what I presented,
because if you mess up OAuth,
you can really do yourself a real disservice.
So at least understand what you're doing
before you jump too deep into this.